Hello everyone and welcome to
doctissimo in your show mom
instruction for children from 6 to 16
years is mandatory for some
parents choose and educational system
alternative a dad and a mom come
bear witness
paul hello you are the mother of sacha
who is 4 years old and of charlie elliott who
are 14-month-old twins and you have
enrolled your daughter was born in a
montessori school yes patrick welcome
you are the father of mathieu and marion
who are respectively 11 and 9 years old and
when your children were two and four
years ago you went around
africa
and since they have lived most of
their distance education to jo about
thirty thousand children aged six to sixteen
do not go to school every morning
represents about 0 3% of them
this is the case of your patrick children you
went to mauritania with them when
you came back you tried to
to school in a classical school in
France and then you have opted for the
it was not able to you the system
French simply we are traveling
a lot with children on the one hand
so there is first a practical function
then when they were in high school
French in nouakchott
I was in a very good school in
which in fact it lends itself very well and
we considered that education that
was made by this school were
excellent that we returned to France
simply we did not find everything to
makes the same conditions
but what did you like in
the French school is not a criticism
on the institution was simply I
think there are schools or sometimes that
is better
or just simply try on a
teacher we love or do not like
good
it's just that we're actually trying to
adapt according to the school we
will find paul you have not even tried
a traditional educational system you
when you were pregnant and as to
girls were small you searched
a house next to a montessori school
because you knew that anyway
it would not integrate a system
traditional educational
so what is the specificity of this
school the idea is to accompany
the child to respect him for example the
classes are mixed the kids are
all mixed between 3 and 6 years ago there is
not the first year second year at
3rd kindergarten because the children
learn a lot between them the big ones
love to teach little ones
little ones like to learn from
great there are a lot of exercises from
work they call it really we
always remains in this perspective of
alone to accompany the child to
that he learns to do alone the child he
is curious by nature he wants
to learn by nature so the idea is
to let him go to those towards this
which interests him without necessarily
lead and why do you think a school
montessori respond better to your
expectations
not necessarily that montessori it could
to be a nerve fall finally there are
other alternative schools of auzances
other alternative teachings that
are interesting after montessori I
thought it sticked better ah ah ah
our way of being so so that's it
it is sure montessori that our
choice went pisi too
certainly in schools
alternative one that is the most
present and therefore most easily
findable in france in ile de france
particularly
but how does it go on a daily basis
Basque it's an organization
incredible to give education to his
kids it's a lot of time it's
a lot of time I go there
nearly three hours a day but
on the other hand we work globally
more flexible than at school by
example month the courses that I give these
recipes around 11am and around 17
hours because I saw that it was at
that moment that mathieu learn the
the best we do about three hours
per day
but on the other hand work almost all
the days of the week and it's not
too difficult do not follow classes
because that's okay he's in sixth
but after that when we go to math
4th is complicated for you I hope
than me among the things I 'm trying to
working with matthieu has
clearly made autonomy so
I hope that when he is in 4th he will have
a little bit of autonomy and who can
working alone then the question we
arises inevitably when we talk about cned
for children this is the question of
sociability it misses him not to
not have classmates at your
son one can do kids can
to socialize outside of school is
a bit like saying to adults the
socialization is necessarily the work
but good apart from that on a daily basis
anyway he makes friends in fact
in his sports activities and
artistic and montessori it stops at
cm2 you thought about following
for me what is interesting about
montessori is that it takes things
children really in early childhood
so to bring them some
some supports that will keep
finally all the rest of the schooling
so beautiful will join a school system
traditional but it may be
better armed as to go into a system
traditional will have to adapt
I do not know maybe she
will fit very well maybe he will
will take a year to adapt
it's expensive yes that against 8
clearly it's a sacrifice even one
Can say
we are in a school less
dear island of France and we are already
not far from 600 euros per month out of 10
month so yes yes it's a hit
really important and you think that
mathieu will do all his schooling thanks to
you with the cned no it's not this is
not likely
I do not think so if we have the opportunity
to go to an alternative school on
will not go what it is
actually schools that attach themselves
think outside the outside of
know how to develop the personality of
children is super important to me
and the teenagers I saw that they
were out of those schools were
actually rather balanced people
and that there was a will in general
to return to the classical system
he had a willingness to work that
kim who hit me you go
by the cned for the education of your
children but at some point your
girl preferred to go to school
why did it happen
do we have to adapt to the children we
our daughter was struggling we had
bad to do him the lessons with the cned
simply do not believe that
because we are the parent is going to be a good
professor it works with my son that
even works very well with my son with
my daughter that was it was complicated and
and then she is she needed to get
find anyway in a
environment with his girlfriends
so we simply adapted the
does your daughter get schooled
in a classic system that you have a
little reconciled with the system
but me if my daughter is happy I
am also I would not consider it
bad schools especially just
there it is more suited to marion so very
well like that but I know that mathieu
he has a way of working he is
fast he has a lot of memory when he
go to school he gets bored very quickly
and in fact they not only he goes
wasting time but but other
apart he takes he takes bad
paths ultimately when a child
bored in class that does not give
good results in general your twins
are 14 years old today you think the
register to ride smiles also and
well we hope for now I am
on parental leave so obviously that
makes a hole in the budget too when
They are old-school me
I would have gone back to work
so probably what I will recover
will go directly to school but we
will see I hope I really hope I can
thank you very much for your testimony to
very soon thank you
e
if you also ask yourself the question
you want an educational system
alternative for your children
I advise you reading a
different school for my child's
marie laure view china has done so much is
a guide for parents that goes from the
kindergarten to high school to find out what
actually proposes these schools on the
ground do you too have you
chose an alternative education system
for your children and what are you
have thought of it
do not hesitate to tell us all about it
in the comments just below
subscribe for the next
emissions we have a lot of nice things to
come
see you very soon